Replication package for the paper:

"Evaluating Change Point Detection Methods for Software Performance Regression Analysis"  
by Diego Elias Costa, Michele Tucci, Luca Traini, Daniele Di Pompeo, Thomas Bach, Francois Farquet, David Daly, Simon Eismann, Petr Tůma, Vittorio Cortellessa, André van Hoorn.

Data are available at [https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18889836](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18889836).

### Curated datasets

Scripts to curate the original raw data can be found at [https://github.com/DiegoEliasCosta/perf-change-dataset/tree/main/scripts](https://github.com/DiegoEliasCosta/perf-change-dataset/tree/main/scripts).

While the curated datasets needed to run the evaluations can be unpacked from `data.zip`.


### Annotation tool

The annotation tool described in Section 7.1 is available at [https://github.com/mtucci/AnnotateChange](https://github.com/mtucci/AnnotateChange). This fork contains the modifications we made to the original tool to adapt it to our needs (described in the same section of the paper). The original tool by G.J.J. van den Burg is available at [https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/AnnotateChange](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/AnnotateChange).


### RQ1: Performance time series characteristics

Scripts used in RQ1 can be found in `rq1/`.

Figures 3 and 4 (and additional detailed statistics) can be generated by running `compare_timeseries_stats.py` in `rq1/`. This script generates the plots and statistics comparing the characteristics of the time series with and without change points. To run the script, use the following command:

```bash
python compare_timeseries_stats.py
```

### RQ2: Human annotations of change points
    
Scripts used in RQ2 can be found in `rq2/`.

Figure 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 can be generated by running the `annotations-stats.ipynb` notebook in `rq2/`. This notebook generates the plots and statistics comparing the annotations of the different annotators and the agreement between them.


### RQ3: Accuracy of change point detection methods

Scripts used in RQ3 can be found in `rq3/`.

The evaluation of the accuracy of change point detection methods is performed using [TCPDBench](https://github.com/SimonEismann/TCPDBench), originally developed by G.J.J. van den Burg. TCPDBench executes all the methods and writes the results in `data/abed_results/`. The scores of the methods are then computed using `compute_cpd_methods_scores.sh`, which uses the annotations in `data/annotations.csv`, the time series in `data/datasets/` and the results of the execution of the methods in `data/abed_results/`. To compute the scores, run the following command:

```bash
./compute_cpd_methods_scores.sh ../data/annotations.csv ../data/datasets ../data/abed_results
```

This will generate the table of scores resulting from the execution of the change point detection methods on the time series (Table 5, RQ3) in `rq3_cpd_methods_scores.tex` and `rq3_cpd_methods_scores.csv`.

#### Scripts used in RQ3:

`annotations_to_json.py` converts the annotations done by humans into a JSON format. Usage: `python annotations_to_json.py <annotations.csv>`. Output: `annotations.json`.

`compute_cpd_methods_scores.sh` generates the table of scores resulting from the execution of the change point detection methods on the time series (Table 5, RQ3).

`default_methods.txt` contains the configurations of parameters that we consider as default, that is the parameters used by the method if no other parameters are specified. This is used by `methods_scores.py` to distinguish between the performance of the default parameters and those that are optimized.

`methods_scores.py` generates the table of scores resulting from the execution of the change point detection methods on the time series (Table 5, RQ3). Usage: `python methods_scores.py <summaries.csv>`. Output: `rq3_cpd_methods_scores.tex` and `rq3_cpd_methods_scores.csv`.

`metrics.py` and `summarize.py` are used to compute the metrics and summarize the results of the change point detection methods. Their output is used by `methods_scores.py` to generate the tables. These scripts are taken as they are from G.J.J. van den Burg at [https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/TCPDBench](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/TCPDBench) and retain the original license. Usage: `python summarize.py -a annotations.json -d <time_series.json> -r <results_dir/> > summaries/time_series.json`. Output: the `summaries/` directory.

Already computed summaries files are also available in `summaries.zip` for convenience.

`summaries_to_csv.py` converts the summaries generated by `summarize.py` into a single CSV file. Usage: `python summaries_to_csv.py <summaries/>`. Output: `summaries.csv`.
